this is the first of at least three
videos i think i'm going to make talking
about philosophy and politics and the
future of veganism as a movement in
relation to the 2015 book animal rights
the abolitionists approached by Gary
Franchione a Gary franzoni is no doubt
one of the most important people in the
history of animal rights in the history
of veganism he is definitely one of the
most influential voices in the last 10
years and I do think his work will be
remembered for the next 100 years would
that having been said I am a critic of
his work and if you've been watching
this channel regularly you will have
seen me criticizing his work in the past
however criticism does not entail
contempt there are a lot of useful
observations in this book that are worth
discussing and also his book is an
occasion for us to ask ourselves serious
questions about our own futures
individually as vegans trying to change
the world and collectively veganism as a
movement why do i say i'm going to make
several videos about this book instead
of say just one long book review video
well one of my new year's resolutions is
that i'm really trying to bring more
people on to the channel so i've
actually invited to youtube broadcasters
your may already know to come online and
discuss the book with me and you know
both of them responded positively and
this is this is 2017 parades oh great
you know it's been such a long time
since i read a whole book you know book
cover-to-cover we so often consume
information and short snippets little
bits and pieces videos on the internet
articles on the internet we spent so
much time managing and shuffling around
information to actually sit down and
read a book from cover to cover
sometimes seems like a luxury seems like
a rare and remarkable things in our
lives so I invited mod vegan mod vegan
also known as Margaret but I call her
mod mod vegans been featured on this
channel in the past and I encourage you
guys to go check out her channel she has
a really good new video up about
leather industry interesting and I also
invited Klaus from plant-based news now
assume those will be separate videos and
clothes also he said oh great an excuse
to to read a whole book we'll see if
Klaus finds time for it as of today the
last I checked neither one of them has
finished reading the book yet i already
have finished reading it it's about 150
pages if you guys want to read the book
you can join in too but I could throw
out some invitations to some other
vegans who are really interested in
substance here on the internet somebody
like The Onion Knight any of the vegans
who are sincerely engaged in the
political future of veganism I'd be
happy to have you guys in my channel and
talk about this book and its
implications but I think each one of
those people is probably going to find
different aspects of this book
illuminating and interesting and they're
probably going to find different aspects
of this book problematic and important
to criticize so in this video this is
kind of just kicking off a series of
videos and I'd be happy if there were
six different videos in this series
there's a lot of material why is there
so much material ok guys if you've never
heard of this book before you have to
realize Gary francais oniy is a former
supporter of pettah people for the
ethical treatment of animals and a large
part of this book is really heaping
scorn on pettah it's a very harsh
castigating criticism it's a
condemnation of pettah and it is not
just a condemnation of pettah it's a
condemnation of all organizations
similar to petta obviously including
Humane Society United States now I
sympathize it's funny I mean my whole
experience the vast majority of vegans
hate pettah but you do also have to ask
yourself looking back at the last 50
years pedda isn't it the single most
successful charity or foundation in the
world in this category of veganism
ecology animal rights ethics and looking
ahead to the next 50 years it's actually
entirely possible that they will
continue to be the most successful they
may be
come more successful and they have
definitely become more vegan veganism
has increasingly been part of their
message and part of their strategy
whereas in the past if you can remember
but longer if there's a time when it
really was not there was a time when
they had you know actresses wearing
leather boots in some of their
promotions and so on and yeah there were
a lot of reasons why androids exit so to
start with you know the easiest way to
tell someone who's never heard about
this controversy before would be to say
what okay what is Gary francais on his
approach to animal rights well in terms
of praxis he completely rejects pettah
and he completely rejects any kind of
large centralized animal rights charity
resembling petta he embraces what he
calls grassroots activism and it's
grassroots activism utterly focused on
121 face-to-face interactions so I'd
encourage you there's a link below this
video i made an earlier video responding
to Gary francia a and specifically
dealing with his comments on slavery and
the abolition of slavery but the
emphasis in that earlier video was that
I said look you know francie own a his
abolitionist approach to animal rights
it's always saying that this is an issue
as fundamental as slavery he's really
putting tremendous emphasis on this
comparison between America's history of
the struggle to abolish slavery and the
struggle to abolish animal exploiting
industries but the historical reality is
abolitionism in the United States was
violent abolitionism involved the Civil
War abolitionism involved a political
struggle on a staggering scale that was
everywhere from your local city hall to
your local state senator to federal
parliament sorry the United States they
don't use the word Parliament but you
know my point this the debates about the
abolition of slavery totally it was
totally consumed their political process
including party politics and of course
it also consumed the country in a
violent civil war that killed an
enormous number of people so it is
somewhat
bizarre that Francey on his approach
pairs this very dramatic over the top I
mean even the choice of the term
abolitionist knavish anism he really
chooses to hammer home and again and
again the center of his rhetoric is the
comparison to slavery and the abolition
of slavery but the center of his
political praxis is one-to-one friendly
conversations is just education
grassroots education as he defines it
and that really is from his perspective
talking to people at the grocery store
talking to people at the grass gas
station striking up people on that human
one to one level and educating them
about veganism he also mentions a few
other methods like tabling going to
conferences setting up a table handing
out pamphlets but that is a really
incongruous pairing and if you watch
this channel before you know my own
approach to veganism is really more of a
middle path no I do not want to have a
civil war but I really recognize the
scale and seriousness and political
nature of this struggle and I do think
it's something where we need to get
organized we need to get organized into
foundations and charities and in some
ways People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals is a positive example in terms
of their achievement and we also get
need to get formally involved in lobby
and government wherever you are whether
it's Canada or Germany or France I think
there are real legal and political
challenges that are far beyond this
grassroots education approach that he
takes so in this video I'm just kicking
it off this is not a complete or
compendious video I'm going to talk
about the issues that from my
perspective come up in just the first
few pages of his work however it's a
very repetitive work he what he said
discusses in the first few pages in many
ways he discusses throughout the entire
book the book is worth reading but the
same themes come up again and again so
look his philosophy is very simple if
you want to convince people to come
vegan the way to do it is to
present veganism in terms of property
rights now you've already heard me say
that he links that to slavery from his
perspective the fundamental problem with
slavery is that it reduces human beings
to being owned as property now there are
many many ways in terms of both rhetoric
and philosophy and politics and law to
describe what the problem with slavery
is or to describe why the abolition of
slavery was a good thing that's a very
peculiar choice of words I think if you
ask the average American on the streets
to define slavery they probably would
not do it in terms of property rights
and then he extends this to suggest that
the way we need to broach veganism way
we need to create the roots of veganism
as a new ethical issue that's going to
transform the world around us is simply
to educate people to explain to people
the concept of property rights and that
it is not moral for them to drink milk
milk from a cow because that milk is not
your property I think just even keeping
at this one simple point we all have to
admit to ourselves that must be the most
ineffective form of activism imaginable
it's totally ineffective in English I
can't even imagine translating that
method into chinese or Hindi I mean any
other cultural context in the world and
one of the reasons this seems so
tone-deaf I think is that his whole
model of how to achieve a vegan world it
does ignore culture Francie Oni by
training is a lawyer and he really
thinks that this kind of legal fiction
approaching this in terms of a legal
analysis of the nature of property
rights is the most effective a most
devastating way to convince people that
they must become vegan there's a moral
obligation on them to become v
but the reality is we all know on a
human level face-to-face if you're
talking to a friend of our co-worker and
for the first time they notice that you
don't drink milk or maybe you comment
you see them buying ice cream and he
said I don't eat that stuff I'm vegan
they might ask you sincerely oh why is
that maybe your friend asks you maybe
they've known vegetarians of the past is
it what what's wrong with drinking cow
milk if somebody asks you that the worst
possible answer you could give is to say
well here's the theory of property
rights in the Western legal tradition
and here's the way that connects to the
history of the abolition of slavery in
my analysis of the American Civil War
that's got to be the weakest most
dehumanizing most ineffective approach a
manageable even if you're in California
and it makes no sense at all if you're
in England Germany France let alone
Japan Sweden India Jamaica it's it's an
America centric view but honestly I
can't even see it working in the United
States on that face-to-face level in the
face to face level is important
philosophical political and otherwise I
think it would make more sense if you
talked about nature what's natural and
I'm unnatural even though we all know
that appeal to nature is in some sense
of fallacy even though we know that's
kind of flawed and dead-ended it can be
very effective very moving to say to
someone honestly you know I believe
humans should only drink milk from other
humans I think it's unnatural for a
human being to get down on their hands
and knees and suck the milk out of a
cow's breast maybe that's not the end of
the conversation but maybe that's the
start of the conversation right that has
nothing to with property rights there's
nothing to the abolition of slavery the
average person who is not already vegan
if you try to say to them that the
problem with drinking cow's milk is that
the cow is a slave that's already a huge
obstacle to convince someone that that's
a that's a rational or reasonable
argument
is very very difficult if someone's
already vegan it may be contentious they
may accept that they may say yes I see
the comparison to slavery um to make the
comparison to the abolition of slavery
like this cow should be liberated and
set free again this is getting a little
bit abstract but specifically within the
slavery paradigm to focus on the
technical definition of property that
the moral problem with slavery is that
people are accounted as property under
the law and that the moral problem with
drinking cow milk is that the cow is the
property of a human being this is a
tremendously week basis for vegan
activism it's a tremendously week basis
for veganism as a philosophy and I think
it's a tremendously week basis for
political practice and I don't just mean
that on the face to face level of
explaining why a friend of yours should
stop drinking milk but that in itself I
think is enough to illustrate how deep
this problem runs in France iannone's
approach the abolitionist approach as he
defines them um no again the appeal to
nature may be a fallacy you know it may
be your friend is quick-witted and when
you say it's unnatural to drink the milk
out of a cow's breast out of a cow's
udders they may turn around to you and
say yeah well you know what toothpaste
is also unnatural so I use toothpaste so
what so why shouldn't I do something
natural something unnatural is not
necessarily immoral that's true you can
also have an appeal to fairness to say
look you know it's one thing for an
animal to live in the wild and then one
day a bullet from a hunter's gun kills
that animal ending its life and it's
another thing for a cow to be born and
bred to live its whole life in a steel
shed on a concrete floor just to produce
milk for you is that strictly legal is
that strictly rational I've had many
conversations like that when you
approach people that way a contrast
between hunting a wild animal and a
domesticated animal suffering its whole
life until it dies just for human
convenience that can be a very effective
way to
out the conversation maybe it's not the
end of the conversation maybe it doesn't
define the whole movement I mean I could
go on and on even the health approach
I've been many videos talking about that
ultimately I think veganism cannot be
based on health claims but there is a
profound aspect to the fact that many
people grew up believing that eating
meat and drinking milk and eating
chicken eggs that this is necessary so
whatever suffering whatever evil
whatever exploitation is involved it's
it's necessitated by the health argument
so even addressing in terms of health
argument that not only can you live your
whole life without milk and be healthy
you will in fact be healthier if you
start drinking cow milk that is actually
a fundamental aspect of the vegan
paradigm so again I'm not saying this to
ridicule Francie ohne but he has lived
in a kind of washington DC echo chamber
he's a lawyer he talks to other lawyers
and I think he doesn't realize how
absurd what he has to say about slavery
is from just a normal lay persons
perspective on slavery again click the
link below this video i made an earlier
video really focused on slavery on how
his movement misrepresents and exploits
this your slavery from my perspective I
just think they do a bad job of dealing
with slave rants implications I'm not
saying that slavery is is it totally
inappropriate comparison but it is it is
only one comparison and in some ways
it's a problematic one but then within
the slavery he really wants to focus on
this very narrow logical legalistic
question of how we define property
rights and in the past I've also
questioned that it's really a false
allegory the reality was that when black
slavery was abolished in America which
is a very specific example in the world
is a totally different history of how
slavery was abolished in Sri Lanka so
totally different history of how slavery
was abolished in Thailand totally
totally different but in the United
States of America when slavery was a
bowl
all of the slaves black african-american
slaves they already spoke English
fluently because enough centuries had
transpired since they were enslaved they
spoke English they were born and raised
the United States they had just arrived
from Africa and as soon as slavery was
abolished they could speak for
themselves they could literally go to
City Hall they could go to the
Parliament they could go to the
courthouse they could give voice to
their own rights and their own interests
they could get a job they could pursue a
career they could try to enroll in a
school obviously America was still
incredibly racist not saying it was easy
a cow cannot do any of these things a
monkey cannot do any of these things
it's just not the case that we can
liberate animals and then have them
speak for themselves that they can
become self-reliant self-determining
that they can be you know the situation
of dependency between master and slave
in the United States could end overnight
with a legal change suddenly black
people could be empowered to speak for
themselves of course it was still a
struggle and there is no way a monkey or
a gorilla let alone a rat can speak for
its own interests animals are going to
be in a situation of perpetual
dependency on humans and even when you
have a particular monkey in a laboratory
being tortured to death for medical
experiments the interest of that monkey
has to be represented by a lawyer a
human lawyer in a courtroom so there are
many ways in which this comparison is
weak and misleading by the way in later
videos there are aspects of France
Leone's approach that are positive and
just to say really briefly the whole
book hate sped up people with ethical
group of animals and you get to hear him
explain why he thinks his approach a
superior to Petta he also hates the
utilitarians there's a very harsh
uncompromising critique of Peter Singer
he completely condemns peter singer in
the utilitarian approach to animal
rights and
that material is good and interesting
and worth reading but I think my role is
to actually help us progress beyond this
model also because there are some
elements of there's some elements of the
abolition approach that are also very
weak or you know perhaps someone
observed so look maybe that's enough I
mean I have a lot I could say even about
just that that one issue ok I'll give
one more example of that I mean this
issue of property rights I've mentioned
before actually in our society because
property can't speak for itself
oftentimes we do have special classes of
property if you own a painting an
historical painting that's worth a
million dollars you have limited
property rights over if you destroy the
painting you can go to jail if you own a
building and the historical architecture
is important there were a million
government regulations the fact that you
own something as property doesn't mean
you have unlimited right to destroy it
or do whatever you want with it it is
much more likely that the progress of
animal rights and veganism will be
through the creation of a special
category of property where by animals
have more and more rights afforded to
them and human beings have to be
employed to pay attention to those
rights what are the rights of a wild
bear living on a nature reserve that's a
very difficult question under some
circumstances humans have the right to
shoot a bear not others what are the
rights of a domesticated dog living in
the city not easy to answer and to use
the academic terminology within the
within the the field you know the
so-called citizenship approach to animal
rights is very concerned about who will
pay for veterinary fees you know if
animals get sick and need five thousand
dollars worth of surgery whose
responsibility is that if you abolish
ownership if nobody owns the dog nobody
owns the bear those become very
difficult questions but the idea that we
can abolish property thereby abolish
slavery thereby liberate the animals in
a close parallel to what happened United
States the end the civil war is in many
ways surreal and in many ways it's much
more likely that we're going to have a
process of creating special
classifications of property for animals
as property in the same way that we have
special classifications for historical
architecture for statues for painting us
and as I pointed out my earlier video
it's a profound irony that in our
society a statue of a cow may have more
rights than an actual cow in many
situations you don't have the right to
destroy the statue it's an ancient
statue it's a valuable statue there's a
question of the public good of the
public interest that's reflected in the
protected status of the statue and yet
there is no protected status for an
actual living breathing cow that's a
fundamental contradiction in our Western
legal paradigm but the solution is not
that hard to see as one more example
here you know again I just do not think
that anyone would decide to stop
drinking milk to stop eating ice cream
or to stop wearing a fur coat because
someone said to them according to this
philosophy of property rights that's not
your property and it's very easy for me
to imagine people being motivated
especially culturally motivated but the
idea I would not wear fur because it is
beneath my dignity as a matter of
dignity and dignity is not a strictly
legal concept it's not a strictly
logical concept it doesn't fit into this
kind of highly legalistic philosophical
and political paradigm but culturally it
can have tremendous power on people's
lives I was reading a story recently
george RR martin story in which someone
says that he was willing to kill for the
king but not to lie for him you know you
could order him to go to war but you
couldn't order underlie you couldn't
order him to cheat or steal people won't
do people refuse to do things because
they feel it's beneath their dignity and
it's very powerful and it's culturally
conditioned and it's
built up over generations I think it's
very easy to show someone a video of
what goes on at a fur farm and say in
effect you're too good to contribute to
this it's beneath your dignity as a
human being to give money supporting
this industry you're better than that
you should be better than that you
should have a higher calling you should
have some kind of moral code that makes
you object to this where you won't for
the sake of vanity or convenience put on
a fur coat dignity is a much more
powerful concept than property than
property rights in this sense and i have
seen myself because many times many of
the people i've converted to being vegan
we're already vegetarian you many people
watching this you've had this mirror you
talked to a vegetarian and you really
simply explain to them why they're too
good to drink milk you know there's a
level in what you're saying somebody you
will already know the problem here you
already know what this is doing animals
you know what you're signing on for you
know the industry you're supporting if
you buy and drink cow milk if you eat
this ice cream come on you're not that
dumb you're not that immoral you're not
that evil you're too good for this this
is beneath your dignity on a one-to-one
level which is part of what we talked
about here that can be very powerful
scaling it up on a political level that
can be very powerful can motivate a
political organization a society of
foundation a charity and over time
culturally that can be very powerful and
maybe that's the sense in which I'm most
alien from Gary France iana here you
know Francie ohne he is in some sense I
think of Christian and a monotheists and
Francie on a you know his his whole
model of talking to people face to face
one to one like that I think it really
is a lot like the Christian ideal of
proselytizing of that one to one in
Protestant Christianity and Catholicism
to a lesser extent I think that on a
deep level he's info
by Western Christian culture and I'm not
on the contrary I'm really aware of the
power and weight and significance of
vegetarianism in Chinese culture in
Indian culture in Buddhist culture to
some extent in Taoism Confucianism but
in Asian religions and Asian cultures
culture is in many ways the deeper and
more profound change that we're aiming
for here and maybe that's why this
emphasis on property rights and slavery
and the abolition of slavery is so
misleading because there's one thing for
goddamn sure in the history of United
States of America you were not going to
liberate the slaves through cultural
change alone right they did it through a
civil war but I can almost say the
opposite about veganism in some sense it
doesn't matter how many laws we pass if
we don't bring about the cultural change
we need to be in a situation where
legislative change and cultural change
are working hand-in-hand that we have
legal cases that draw people's attention
to the cultural challenge we have
cultural programs and forms of education
and engagement that instigate change in
people's lives in a human level then in
a sense challenge the assumptions of
Western culture and Western civilization
the assumptions of the last thousand
years getting challenged and changed but
in so many ways our struggle is cultural
and without protracting this video too
much one of the reasons why France seoni
doesn't want to talk about culture is
that he his abolitionist approach he
refuses to admit the effectiveness of
any halfway measures he refuses to admit
that any good was accomplished by
attempts to make to ban fur just fur he
has a whole other topic but the reality
is we think about it culturally in many
ways we know even if you regard the old
campaigns of the past the merely
vegetarian campaigns Pettis
old-fashioned campaigns that just
focused on fur but the kind of made
people feel that meet at mill
we're okay well fer was evil where the
leather was okay well for his ok that's
a deeply flawed strategy politically I
know that I agree with Francie on a on
one level but on a cultural level I also
know and recognize that those
experiments in the past those attempts
to challenge our culture of wearing fur
etc etc they absolutely did create the
basis for the vitality of veganism and
vegetarianism today they absolutely did
and Francie Oni refuses to think in
those terms so there you have it guys my
first video I think of many there's no
doubt as I say Francie ohne is one of
the most important authors and leaders
in this field of one of the most
important of his generation but I'm
really speaking for the next generation
and in a lot of ways I look at France
Sione's legacy as deeply flawed in the
same way that Francie ohne looked back
on Peter singers legacy as deeply flawed
and it's a very interesting book but I
think you can really see that the Animus
the spark of life in this book is
Francie ones hatred for pettah hatred
for the Humane Society United States and
his hatred for Peter Singer and each
other is a real hatred and in some ways
that hatred has warped and biased his
perspective about what is and isn't
effective activism always hard to talk
about and in some ways his own
background as a lawyer in Washington DC
has definitely warped his perspective
and I think the examples talked about in
this video already go a long way to show
in what that problem is maybe it's a
subtle and profound problem but it is a
problem and we need an approach to
veganism that is simultaneously
politically savvy and culturally
sophisticated we need to have an
approach to veganism that's explicitly
political that's about organizing
lobbying influence I
your local school board at the mayor's
office at local Parliament we need a
form of veganism that takes full
advantage of living in a democracy where
you have freedom of speech and the
ability to be heard in the formation of
policy and in education itself we do
need to have a form of veganism that
does much more than grassroots
educational activism as he describes it
we need to have for visa that's
politically savvy but we also need to
have a form of veganism that is
culturally sophisticated we need to have
a form of veganism that speaks to the
politics of the moment but also to the
politics of the millennium and it's the
changes we make in our culture whether
that's building on the legacy of
Buddhism or starting from a blank sheet
of paper in California was in California
is not the hardest place think about if
your IVA email the other day from
somebody in Romania Wow in Eastern
Europe trying to get veganism going
south of France very very odd some of
these cultures are intensely enamored
with meat eating their cultures built on
the ideology of meat and alcohol being
central to the enjoyment of life huge
struggle to challenge that culturally
the political struggle is insufficient
without understanding the cultural
struggle and certainly francais ones
approach of just looking at education
and grassroots it's insufficient without
those other two I hope you'll subscribe
to this channel I hope you'll stick with
this channel long term and I hope you'll
join me in whatever way you can and
doing your part over that in that
struggle for however many years we've
got on earth because this struggle is
not going to be over in a day and it's
not going to be over in a decade this
struggle is going to go on for 200 years